Azure Monitor Agent (AMA) in Azure Arc-enabled servers (#1283)
microsoft/azure_arc: docs/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/day2/arc_azuremonitoragent/_index.md

---
type: docs

> title: "Azure Monitor Agent"

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
title: "Azure Monitor Agent (AMA)"
```

> linkTitle: "Azure Monitor Agent"

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
linkTitle: "Azure Monitor Agent (AMA)"
```

weight: 16
description: >
---

> ## Deploy Azure Monitor Agent (AMA) on Azure Arc Linux and Windows servers

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
## Deploy the Azure Monitor Agent (AMA) on Azure Arc-enabled servers
```

> The following Jumpstart scenario will guide you on how to deploy the [Azure Monitor Agent (AMA)](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/agents/azure-monitor-agent-overview) as an extension on your Azure Arc-enabled servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
The following Jumpstart scenario will guide you on how to deploy the [Azure Monitor Agent (AMA)](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/agents/azure-monitor-agent-overview) as an extension on your Azure Arc-enabled servers, both Linux and Windows systems.
```

- **[Azure Ubuntu VM](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/azure/azure_arm_template_linux/)**
- **[Azure Windows VM](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/azure/azure_arm_template_win/)**
- **[VMware vSphere Ubuntu VM](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/vmware/vmware_terraform_ubuntu/)**
- **[VMware vSphere Windows Server VM](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/vmware/vmware_terraform_winsrv/)**
- **[Vagrant Ubuntu box](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/vagrant/local_vagrant_ubuntu/)**
- **[Vagrant Windows box](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/vagrant/local_vagrant_windows/)**

Please review the [Azure Monitor Agent (AMA) supported OS documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/agents/agents-overview#supported-operating-systems) and ensure that the VMs you will use for this exercise are supported. For Linux VMs, check both the Linux distribution and kernel to ensure you are using a supported configuration.

## Prerequisites

> - As mentioned, this scenario starts at the point where you already deployed and connected VMs or servers to Azure Arc. In the screenshots below, you can see a Windows and a Linux server that have been connected with Azure Arc and are visible as a resource in Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
- As mentioned, this scenario starts at the point where you already deployed and connected VMs or servers to Azure Arc. In the screenshots below, you can see a Windows and a Linux server that have been connected with Azure Arc and are visible as resources in Azure.
```

    ![Screenshot Azure Arc-enabled servers on resource group](./01.png)

    ![Screenshot Linux Azure Arc-enabled server connected status](./02.png)

    ![Screenshot Windows Azure Arc-enabled server connected status](./03.png)

- [Install or update Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest). Azure CLI should be running version 2.14 or later. Use ```az --version``` to check your current installed version.

> - **Minimum RBAC permissions**: *Azure Connected Machine Resource Administrator* on your Azure Arc-enabled servers. *Monitoring Contributor* and *Microsoft.Resources/deployments/** on the resource group where you will deploy this scenario.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
- To complete this scenario, the user or service principal running the automation need these minimum RBAC permissions: *Azure Connected Machine Resource Administrator* on your Azure Arc-enabled servers. *Monitoring Contributor* and *Microsoft.Resources/deployments/** on the resource group where you will deploy this scenario.
 ```

## Deployment Options and Automation Flow

This Jumpstart scenario provides multiple paths for deploying and configuring resources. Deployment options include:

- Azure portal
- ARM template via Azure CLI

The steps below will help you get familiar with the automation and deployment flow.

1. User provides the ARM template parameter values, either via the portal or editing the parameters file. These parameter values are being used throughout the deployment.

2. User deploys the ARM template at the resource group level.

> 3. User is verifying the successful extension deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
3. User is verifying the successful extension deployment and data collection rules creation.
```

    ![Screenshot Linux Data Collection Rules - Perf Counters - Data Source](./23.png)

    ![Screenshot Linux Data Collection Rules - Perf Counters - Destination](./24.png)

    ![Screenshot Linux Data Collection Rules - Syslog - Destination](./25.png)

    ![Screenshot Linux Data Collection Rules - Syslog - Data Source](./26.png)

    ![Screenshot Linux Data Collection Rules - Syslog - Destination](./27.png)

- Go back to your **resource group** and click on the **Log Analytics Workspace**:

  ![Screenshot Log Analytics workspace](./28.png)

- Click on **Logs**:

  ![Screenshot Log Analytics workspace - Logs](./29.png)

- **Run** the following **query**. It will show you the **data types collected** by the **Azure Monitor Agent (AMA)** on each machine by using the **Data Collection Rules (DCR)**:

  ```shell
  search * 
  | distinct Computer, Type
  | where Type != "Heartbeat" and Type != "Usage"
  | sort by Computer asc
  ```

  ![Screenshot Log Analytics workspace - Query](./30.png)

## Clean up environment

> Complete the following steps to clean up your environment:

Reviewer: Can the cleanup process be automated?
